[WEBSITE-676] - Move "Adopt a plugin" from Wiki to jenkins.io (#2635)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/plugin-governance/adopt-a-plugin.adoc

---
layout: developersection
title: Adopt a Plugin
---

We're looking for new maintainers of existing plugins!

> WARNING: The process documented on this page is a subject to change, and it cannot be used at te moment due to the read-only state of Jenkins Wiki.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: The process documented on this page is a subject to change, and it cannot be used at the moment due to the read-only state of Jenkins Wiki.
```

See the discussion link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/UoEqG5AaWJU[here].

This page addresses cases when there is no active maintainer of a plugin:

* **Adopting plugins marked for adoption.**
  Plugin maintainers can mark plugins for adoption if they do not plan to maintain their plugins anymore.
  In such case we have a low-barrier process for taking over plugins.
* **Adopting abandoned plugins.** 
  Sometimes plugin maintainers move on without marking plugins for adoption, due to various reasons.
  In such case we can transfer ownership for plugins being hosted within the `jenkinsci` GitHub organization.
  Such transfer may take a while.

== Requesting commit access

Email the http://jenkins-ci.org/content/mailing-lists[Jenkins Developers mailing list] and request to be made a maintainer 
(which usually means commit access to the plugin repository and being made default assignee for newly reported issues in JIRA).
Please provide the following things in the request:

* Link to a plugin you want to adopt
* Link(s) to pull requests you want to deliver, if applicable
* Your GitHub username/id (e.g. oleg-nenashev for https://github.com/oleg-nenashev/)

> * Your Jenkins infrastructure account id. Create https://jenkins-ci.org/account/[your account if you don't have one].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Your Jenkins infrastructure account id. link:https://accounts.jenkins.io/[Create your account] if you don't have one.
```

For abandoned plugins, you are expected to try and reach out to existing maintainer(s) using a best effort.
The typical way to do that is to ping in GitHub and to add her/his/their email addresses in CC (hint: Git commits should have this information).
We typically wait for about 2 weeks in normal work periods before proceeding, so please be patient.

> Hence, if you can prove the existing maintainer already agrees and you explicitly asked about taking over (e.g. in a PR discussion), the process can be fast-looped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, if you can prove the existing maintainer already agrees and you explicitly asked about taking over (e.g. in a PR discussion), the process can be faster.
```

Even more for plugins with a big number of installations for obvious reasons.

== FAQ

=== A plugin I'm (planning on) using shows up as looking for a maintainer. Does that mean I shouldn't use it?

*No.* Jenkins is designed with backward compatibility in mind, so it's rare that a plugin stops working.
And even then there's often someone who can fix the bug and release a new version even if they wouldn't be considered a maintainer of the plugin.
So if you're happy with what a plugin is offering, there's no reason not to use it just because it's up for adoption.

=== I want to help! How can I find a plugin to maintain?

Check out the list of plugins up for adoption at the bottom of this page.
If you see a plugin you like, visit its wiki page as it may contain additional information about the adoption request.

=== I know which plugin I want to help with, what should I do now?

Once you've chosen a plugin, review the documentation on plugin maintainership in the Jenkins project. 
This is especially important if you're not currently a plugin developer.

As a new maintainer of a new plugin, you'll inherit its existing users, so be careful with breaking changes.

> https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Governance+Document#GovernanceDocument-Compatibilitymatters[We

Reviewer 3: https://jenkins.io/project/governance/#compatibility-matters

Author: Just make a suggestion so that I merge it from phone :)

Reviewer 3: I was also on the phone and couldn't suggest 😉 
```suggestion
link:/project/governance/#compatibility-matters[We
```
